Below are 5 tips to ensure you are getting the most from spot-checking machine learning algorithms on your problem.

-   **Algorithm Diversity**: ==You want a good mix of algorithm types.== I like to include instance based methods (live LVQ and knn), functions and kernels (like neural nets, regression and SVM), rule systems (like Decision Table and RIPPER) and decision trees (like CART, ID3 and C4.5).
-   **Best Foot Forward**: ==Each algorithm needs to be given a chance to put it’s best foot forward. This does not mean performing a sensitivity analysis on the parameters of each algorithm, but using experiments and heuristics to give each algorithm a fair chance.== For example if kNN is in the mix, give it 3 chances with k values of 1, 5 and 7.
-   **Formal Experiment**: Don’t play. ==There is a huge temptation to try lots of different things in an informal manner, to play around with algorithms on your problem. The idea of spot-checking is to get to the methods that do well on the problem, fast. Design the experiment, run it, then analyze the results. Be methodical.== I like to rank algorithms by their statistical significant wins (in pairwise comparisons) and **take the top 3-5 as a basis for tuning.**
-   **Jumping-off Point**: ==The best performing algorithms are a starting point not the solution to the problem. The algorithms that are shown to be effective may not be the best algorithms for the job. They are most likely to be useful pointers to types of algorithms that perform well on the problem.== For example, if kNN does well, consider follow-up experiments on all the instance based methods and variations of kNN you can think of.
-   **Build Your Short-list**: ==As you learn and try many different algorithms you can add new algorithms to the suite of algorithms that you use in a spot-check experiment. When I discover a particularly powerful configuration of an algorithm, I like to generalize it and include it in my suite, making my suite more robust for the next problem.==