-   **Get More Data**. _Can you get more or better quality data?_ Modern nonlinear machine learning techniques like deep learning continue to improve in performance with more data.
-   **Invent More Data**. _If you can’t get more data, can you generate new data?_ Perhaps you can augment or permute existing data or use a probabilistic model to generate new data.
-   **Clean Your Data**. _Can you improve the signal in your data?_ Perhaps there are missing or corrupt observations that can be fixed or removed, or outlier values outside of reasonable ranges that can be fixed or removed in order to lift the quality of your data.
-   **Resample Data**. _Can you resample data to change the size or distribution?_ Perhaps you can use a much smaller sample of data for your experiments to speed things up or over-sample or under-sample observations of a specific type to better represent them in your dataset.
-   **Reframe Your Problem**: _Can you change the type of prediction problem you are solving?_ Reframe your data as a regression, binary or multiclass classification, time series, anomaly detection, rating, recommender, etc. type problem.
-   **Rescale Your Data**. _Can you rescale numeric input variables?_ Normalization and standardization of input data can result in a lift in performance on algorithms that use weighted inputs or distance measures.
-   **Transform Your Data**. _Can you reshape your data distribution?_ Making input data more Gaussian or passing it through an exponential function may better expose features in the data to a learning algorithm.
-   **Project Your Data**: _Can you project your data into a lower dimensional space?_ You can use an unsupervised clustering or projection method to create an entirely new compressed representation of your dataset.
-   **Feature Selection**. _Are all input variables equally important?_ Use feature selection and feature importance methods to create new views of your data to explore with modeling algorithms.
-   **Feature Engineering**. _Can you create and add new data features?_ Perhaps there are attributes that can be decomposed into multiple new values (like categories, dates or strings) or attributes that can be aggregated to signify an event (like a count, binary flag or statistical summary).