1. I need to understand your relationship with the time-space continuum so I have a sense of which options to choose
2. I should also ask about budget. I’d be wasting your time if I gave you too much information on options that cost an arm and a leg if your budget is a toenail.
	> I might still show you one or two expensive options just in case these are the kinds of unknown unknowns that might inspire you to reconsider your budget.
3. The more I know about the data and your tastes, the better I can help you absorb and understand what’s possible so you can get inspired quickly.
4. Knowing the nature of your event will help me skew my investigations towards what’s most likely to be helpful.
5. It's all about getting as much information about context as possible in order to avoid losing time with unuseful options. 


## What to do if I don't have enough information

> # Here is where domain knowledge is important!

Let's base our example in a halloween's custome. **If you didn’t give me much information, I’m on my own.**

- I could produce a list of the three closest costume stores to your coordinates, plus their business hours.
- I could give you an indication of their relative prices using an index of a few items that all of them stock.
- I could tell you that a typical US Halloween store has everything you need to put together a full costume, except the shoes.
- I could survey my friends and produce a pie chart by costume color (so you know what you’d have to pick to blend in or stand out at a gathering with my friends… which might be completely irrelevant to the event you’re actually headed to if your friends aren’t like mine).
- I could try to find information on how expensive Halloweening is and how long it takes to make your own costume versus buy one.
- Maybe I’d make better versions of another survey’s charts (based on 1000 mysterious Americans who may or may not be expert costume makers — **be careful with data whose origins you know nothing about**
- I could inspire you with a list of categories (and exemplars)
- I could look up the most popular keywords accompanying Halloween on Google Trends to see what the dominant categories are.
- I could go a step further and produce a list like this for your area, plotting the relative popularities for both areas… but time is limited and this is probably not what you care about. **It’s only worth doing if fine-grained popularity information is likely to help you somehow.**
- If I thought you were aiming to pay as little as possible, I could look up the cheapest ready-made costumes.
	- Poking around online retailers tells me you can get a cloak and a mask for under $10, so maybe these same items would be good bets to take a look at in your brick-and-mortar store. You could also find beaten up clothes at a vintage store plus cheap eye shadow and red lipstick for a zombie DIY operation..
- I might also want to warn you if your country isn’t one of the top celebrating nations — unless you’re celebrating in one the orange zones, you might attract strange looks on your way to the party. I wear my weird proudly, but others might like to consider a coat.
- I could start veering off track (_this_ year’s Halloween) towards miscellaneous flashes of curiosity, such as _“When do people start searching for Halloween costume information online?”_

```ad-warning
# *Hopefully you’re beginning to see that <mark style="background: green;">domain expertise is important, but without knowing my decision-maker’s business, it’s hard to guess what kind of information to surface.</mark> I’ll end up spending a lot of time running about in all kinds of different directions, trying to guess what you’d like to know.*
```

---

## Metadata

- **Tags:**
	- #analytics
	- #data_analytics
	- #career 
- **Connections**
	- [[5. Analyst as the company's eyes]]