Some data scientists call this “storytelling”. **The important thing here is to communicate insights in a clear, concise, and valid way, so that others in the company can effectively act on those insights.** Companies searching for a strong data scientist are looking for **someone who can clearly and fluently translate their technical findings to a non-technical team, such as the Marketing or Sales departments.** I am yet to come across a course that places a solid emphasis on this. **You can learn all the latest techniques, master multiple tools and make the best graphs, but if you cannot explain your analysis to your client, you will fail as a data scientist. Data science is a field where discussions, ideas and brainstorming is of utter importance.** You cannot sit in a silo and work — you need to collaborate and understand other data scientists’ perspective. Working as a data scientist almost always means working as a team, including working with engineers, designers, product managers, operations, and more.

## How to avoid this mistake?

Most of the data scientists are generally from computer science background, so I understand that this can sometimes be a tough skill to acquire. **But you need to polish your communication skills if you want to succeed as a data scientist. If you’re only marginally familiar with PowerPoint, take a little time to learn Microsoft’s presentation software. By learning to communicate your concepts visually, you have taken an important first step in learning to present them to an audience.** 

The process of putting together your slideshow will also help you organize your thoughts and better understand the work you’re doing. Other thing is , try explaining data science terms to a non-technical person. It will help you to better analyze the problem and find out how well you have worked on it. If you’re working in a small to medium-sized company, find a person in the marketing or sales department and do this exercise with them. It will help you immensely in the long term.