Analytics is like the writing profession: <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">the basics are easy to get started with and it's an art, so there are few barriers to entry and anyone can be a "writer." There's no guarantee of quality in the title.</mark> However, being barely-literate hardly makes you Toni Morrison or Leo Tolstoy - <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">the best writers are light-years away from beginners and they change the world.</mark> That's how analytics is too. The variance in the profession is massive. On the other hand, barriers to entry for, say, statistics, are higher, so the minimum level folks are more impressive than minimum level analysts, but there's also a narrower range of virtuosity. I'm often far more impressed by expert analysts than by statisticians and ML engineers.

**So, if all you’re after is a nudge to get started with analytics, go look at some numbers already. Don’t wait for special permission. You don’t need any fancy training. Feel free to call yourself an analyst as soon as looking at data starts feeling fun.** But if you’re keen to attain expert status, I have bad news for you. While I hope you’ll explore some of the musings linked below, nothing I (or anyone else) could teach you will give you mastery. That takes talent and practice. Lots and lots and lots and LOTS of practice.

---

## Metadata

- **Tags:**
	- #analytics
	- #data_analytics
	- #career 
- **Connections:**
	- [[1. Analytics is more like an art and less about software]]